Dear user,
This system provides an interface for voting on a predefined number of choices using a token
based voting system. After a voting procedure is configured, clients may assign a number of
tokens to each choice of their preference in order to express their opinion. The system
automatically assigns each client to one of the choices.
The vote is set up by an initiator. The initiator creates the run and configures its parameters.
He then invites the clients. The syntax for registering initiators and clients is defined as
ADDRESS, containing three fields: Name Surname Mailaddress. An example for ADDRESS
is “Leonardo DaVinci Leonardo.Davinci@someserver.com”. The syntax for identifying
registered runs, choices, clients and initiators is IDENTIFIER which is a random unique 64bit
number assigned by the system.
If not stated otherwise, the system answers with a STATUS message to a successfully
processed request and with an error message detailing the error otherwise.

===
General Commands:
===

HELP
This help message is returned.

RUN IDENTIFIER
Selects a specific run with the given identifier. Shall always precede any other command
except CREATERUN and HELP.

USER IDENTIFIER
Selects the client or initiator by its identifier.

STATUS
Returns the status of the current evaluation for this particular client or initiator. The response
for a client contains the configuration parameters of the RUN, the client’s CHOICE, and
potential FOLLOWER information. The response for an initiator contains the configuration
parameters for the RUN, the list of all configured CLIENTS and their CHOICES, and the
current DECISION.

===
Client Commands:
===

VOTE IDENTIFIER, NUMBER_OF_TOKENS
The client votes for a particular CHOICE by placing a number of tokens on that choice’s
identifier. One or several VOTE commands are sent in one email. The total number of tokens
in one email has to match the number of tokens configured by the initiator. A client may send
several mails to the system when his opinion on the preferences changes. A STATUS is
returned when the system accepts the choice. An error message is returned if the total
number of tokens does not match the configuration, when the identifiers specified are invalid
Project MailVote - Polytech Nantes - Département Informatique - Version 0.8 - Page 6 / 9
for this run, or when the client is a FOLLOWER of another client who provided a vote email
first.

FOLLOW IDENTIFIER
The client delegates the voting to another client that is specified in the identifier. The identifier
has to be communicated to the follower by the other client or by an initiator.

===
Initiator Commands:
===

CREATERUN ADDRESS
Creates and selects a new run. All further commands are configuring the created run. The
system answers with the initiators version of STATUS.

TOKENCOUNT number
The number of tokens that a client holds in order to express his preference in this run.
DESCRIPTION text
The description of the run as presented to the clients.

ADDCLIENT ADDRESS
Adds a client to the current run.

DELCLIENT identifier
Deletes a client from the current run.

ADDCHOICE text
Adds the provide text of the choice to the list of choices.

DELCHOICE identifier
Deletes the choice corresponding to the identifier from the list of choices.

SENDINVITATION text
Sends an invitation to all clients providing the additional text in the email, i.e. for identifying
the initiator who send the text or for specifying a voting deadline. This invitation contains the
description of the current run and instructions on how to perform the voting with preconfigured
commands for the answer. As the client may use the reply button in order to perform his vote,
the text of the message is written such that the interpretation of the system conforms to the
desired effect of voting.

SENDDECISION text
Sends a decision mail to all clients, informing each client which choice was assigned to him.
The additional text is sent to the clients in the mail. This usually finishes a run although clients
may continue voting and a several decision mails may be sent by the initiator in which case,
text may be used to identify draft and final decisions.